# 2020-12-30

The Lord invites me to “search these commandments”
Doctrine & Covenants 1

The directive to “search these commandments” comes in verse 37, in that context, it seems to refer to the entire “book of commandments” or the whole Doctrine & Covenants.  I read two basic reasons for this in Section 1.

1. Know what is coming
2. Avoid the calamity

## Know What is Coming

* V37 - “the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled”.  If we know what they are, then we’ll know what is ahead of us.

## Avoid the Calamity

* V9 - “the wrath of God shall be poured out upon the wicked without measure”
* V13 - “the anger of the Lord is kindled”
* V14 - “the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord [and his servants and his prophets] shall be cut off”
* V15 - “they have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant”
* V16 - “they seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way”

These verses have some of that same wrath/hellfire vibe that I get from the Old Testament it seems that God can be really petty and jealous.   If you don’t do what He wants, then He’s going to take his ball and go home.

Verse 15-16 in particular suggest a reason for this, especially when you combined it with Skousen’s thoughts on how God could cease to be God.  If there is law of the universe (around justice) that God must also comply with, and He understands what that is, and He understands the consequences of breaking it, then you can read these warnings more along the lines of “look folks, this bad thing is coming.  I can protect you from it, if you do these specific things (don’t stray from the ordinances, keep the everlasting covenant, seek to establish his righteousness), but if you aren’t doing that stuff, then I’m not going to be able to protect you.  That’s the most charitable explanation I’ve got.
