# 2021-01-11

God has a work for me to do.
Joseph Smith History 1:27-33

## Prompt

As you read, consider that God has a work for you to do, as He did for Joseph Smith.

I don’t know how I feel about this.  I can honestly say that this has never even occurred to me.  I firmly believe in the mission of Jesus Christ and that he was the only one who could do what he did.  Similarly, I believe that Joseph Smith was foreordained to do the work that he did and that he was uniquely called to the position - however, perhaps contrarily, it also seems silly that God would have no backup plan.

I have always thought of myself as being somewhere way down the spectrum.  Sure there’s work to do in God’s kingdom, and I can certainly contribute to it.  In fact, it is my privilege to do so, but surely the Lord does not /need/ *me*?  His work will go forth with or without me, right?

## Prompt from President Nelson

> ...my first recommendation is to learn for yourselves who you really are. Ask your Heavenly Father, in the name of Jesus Christ, how He feels about you and your mission here on earth. If you ask with real intent, over time the Spirit will whisper the life-changing truth to you. Record those impressions and review them often, and follow through with exactness.
> I promise you that when you begin to catch even a glimpse of how your Heavenly Father sees you and what He is counting on you to do for Him, your life will never be the same!
~ President Nelson - [Becoming True Millenials](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/broadcasts/article/worldwide-devotionals/2016/01/becoming-true-millennials?lang=eng)

This brings to mind something different.  God has not assigned me a specific task that needs doing or all will fail, but God does have a vision in mind for what I can be.  He has goals and dreams for me (in the same way that I do for my kids?).  He has characteristics and talents he wants me to develop.  There is a certain kind of person he wants me to become.

And if I can glimpse that vision, it can inspire me to do what is necessary to achieve it?  I can get behind that.
