# 2021-01-18

I should trust God rather than fearing man
Doctrine & Covenants 3:1-15

Martin Harris had been good to Joseph Smith, offering Joseph respect, belief, and financial support at a time when all three were hard to come by.  And Martin offered these things at a great personal expense to himself and his family.

So it is not to hard to see why Martin wanted the pages of the manuscript to show his wife, to encourage her to believe.  In the same way that we tend to think badly of Laman and Lemuel for their complaining, but then look at it a little bit closer and see ourselves in them - I think this same kind of thinking could apply to Martin Harris.

When we understand the peer pressure and circumstances he was under, it’s perhaps a bit easier to understand why he would plead with Joseph to ask again.  Maybe he’s proven himself now and the Lord will say /yes/ this time.

And for Joseph who was in such poor circumstances, beset at every turn, it is easy to see why he might feel a desire to accommodate the request of such a friend as Martin.

So Joseph continues to ask the Lord, the Lord finally relents on the 3rd time, Martin takes the pages, and they are lost (Why is it that we know almost nothing about how they were lost? That seems like the kind of thing that we would know all about).

[The Contributions of Martin Harris](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/manual/revelations-in-context/the-contributions-of-martin-harris) seems to suggest that Joseph may have actually lost the Urim and Thummim (along with his gift of translation) prior to the pages being lost, simply because he had “wearied the Lord in asking that Martin Harris might take the writings.“ This is in the section entitled “To Stop the Mouths of Fools”.  That’s interesting all by itself.

In any case, Joseph is warned about the consequences of not having constant vigilance, but is also reassured that through repentance he can restore his gift of translation and he can regain his full standing in the eyes of the Lord.

D&C 3:9-10
> 9 Behold, thou art Joseph, and thou wast chosen to do the work of the Lord, but because of transgression, if thou art not aware thou wilt fall.
> 10 But remember, God is merciful; therefore, repent of that which thou hast done which is contrary to the commandment which I gave you, and thou art still chosen, and art again called to the work;
