# 2021-02-03

The Lord’s “wisdom is greater than the cunning of the devil.”
Doctrine & Covenants 10:34-52

I don’t even remember which seminary teacher it was, but I do have a memory of one of my teacher’s talking about “time only existing unto man”.  Or maybe it was Jon Bytheway?  Anyway, his point of illustration was to talk about the lost pages of manuscript, how the Lord saw that happen in ~1829, so he went back to 600BC to tap Nephi on the shoulder and have him be sure to make a record that covered all the same time frame that his father, Lehi, had already written.

1 Nephi 9:3
> Nevertheless, I have received a commandment of the Lord that I should make these plates, for the special purpose that there should be an account engraven of the ministry of my people.

1 Nephi 9:5-6
> Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me to make these plates for a wise purpose in him, which purpose I know not.
> But the Lord knoweth all things from the beginning; wherefore, he prepareth a way to accomplish all his works among the children of men...

There are a few additional details that whoever-it-was didn’t mention - or that I simply didn’t pick up on.  Not only did the Lord have Nephi write another account for he same time period, but He instructed Nephi that it should specifically focus on the ministry of the people rather than the reigns of the kings.  

He later tells Joseph that the plates of Nephi “do throw greater views upon my gospel; therefore, it is wisdom in me that you should ​​​translate​ this first part of the engravings of Nephi, and send forth in this work.” (D&C 10:45).  So not only does the Lord replace the missing pages, makes them better.

This was not the only intervention that the Lord had to make in the timeline in order to accomplish His purpose.  He also had to prevail upon Mormon to include this specific record of Nephi.

Words of Mormon 1:6-7
> But behold, I shall take these plates, which contain these prophesyings and revelations, and put them with the remainder of my record, for they are choice unto me; and I know they will be choice unto my brethren.
> And I do this for a wise purpose; for thus it whispereth me, according to the workings of the Spirit of the Lord which is in me. And now, I do not know all things; but the Lord knoweth all things which are to come; wherefore, he worketh in me to do according to his will.

And what of the greater views that the plates of Nephi throw upon the Gospel?  

2 Nephi 4 comes immediately to my mind as Nephi struggles with his weaknesses - this was very impactful to my angst-y teenage years.  

2 Nephi 2’s teachings of things that act and are acted upon made a huge impact on my while on my mission studying about the Atonement and how it actually functions.

1 Nephi 3, obviously, with its inspiration to go and do what the Lord has commanded.  And the next few chapters recording Nephi’s obstacles to overcome as he acquired the brass plates.

Jacob’s allegory in Jacob 5 - something I did not appreciate at all as a child - contains a basic history of all time, that’s pretty neat.

Enos gives us an example of how meaningful and impactful prayer can be.
