---
layout: post
title: "2021-04-16"
description: "Thoughts on Elder Uchtdorf's April 2021, Saturday Morning conference message."
date: 2021-04-16
tags: [repentance, perfection, growth, progress]
---

# 2021-04-16

April Conference 2021
Saturday Morning
Elder Uchtdorf
[God Among Us](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2021/04/12uchtdorf?lang=eng)

This was an interesting talk for me.  Elder Uchtdorf's main message did not strike me in the way that his talks usually do, but around the edges, he said a few things that were striking.

At the beginning, Elder Uchtdorf shares a story from his youth about missionaries that were serving in post-WWII Germany.  He talks about how they did not judge or hate, just loved and served.  And then he says:

> To me, these young men and women were perfect. I am sure they had flaws, but not to me.

The message for me was in not finding fault with others.  Maybe sometimes, perfection can be in the eye of the beholder.

Later on in his talk, he talks about the atoning power of the Savior, and repentance.  This is not new territory, but I haven't yet got tired of hearing us rehabilitate the word "repentance" from being _the thing that you do after you sin_ into being _the process by which we improve and become more like the Savior_.

>The Savior’s infinite Atonement completely changes the way we may view our transgressions and imperfections. Instead of dwelling on them and feeling irredeemable or hopeless, we can learn from them and feel hopeful. The cleansing gift of repentance allows us to leave our sins behind and emerge a new creature.
> Because of Jesus Christ, our failures do not have to define us. They can refine us...
> If we repent, mistakes do not disqualify us. They are part of our progress.

I love this message.  I don’t think it can be repeated enough.  It reinforces the love that God has for each of us.  It reinforces the message that we all have worth to God regardless of our individual failings.

If more people would adopt this attitude toward one another, the world would be a very different place.   If I can adopt this attitude towards others, I will be a kinder, better person.
