# 2021-02-01

“Even as you desire of me so it shall be.”
Doctrine & Covenants 6-7, 9:3, 7-14

It is mostly section 7 that caught my eye.  It is evident that the Lord cares about our desires.

Peter desired to come unto the Lord in his kingdom.  John desired to tarry that he might continue his ministry.

In particular, verse 8 is meaningful:

> Verily I say unto you, ye shall both have according to your desires, for ye both joy in that which ye have desired.

Yes, the Lord has a plan for us, but perhaps his plan is that we get what we want as long as our desires are righteous ones and they align with his will.  Peter and John both were able to attain what they desired, because their desires were righteous.  The Lord even suggests that their desires were granted /because/ it was what they desired.

{% include image_caption.html imageurl="/images/for_posts/2021-02-01-1.png" title="comefollowmedaily - Part 1" %}
{% include image_caption.html imageurl="/images/for_posts/2021-02-01-2.png" title="comefollowmedaily - Part 2" caption="From comefollowmedaily" %}

Oliver Cowdery’s experience suggests that sometimes our desires are not aligned with the Lord’s.  And sometimes, that is not a matter of the thing that we desire, but rather the timing of the thing.

D&C 9:11
> Behold, it was expedient when you commenced; but you feared, and the time is past, and it is not expedient now;

In this case, Oliver Cowdery had the word of the Lord that his desires were righteous, but the timing was wrong.  In our own personal lives, we are probably not going to get that luxury, and there will be times when we are left to wonder about it.  But at least we’ll know what the options are.
