# 2021-02-08

The Lord wants me to help establish the cause of Zion
Doctrine & Covenants 12

I’ve “studied” the Doctrine & Covenants really only twice before.  I read it for the first time on my mission as part of my quest to actually read all the standard works (which I did).  The second time was after I returned home, I took two Doctrine & Covenants courses at BYU, one after the other where we studied half of it each semester.

Maybe I noticed it once and forgot, or maybe I just never noticed, but the Lord has a bit of a preamble for these revelations that He gives to individuals.

Some common elements:

1. A great and marvelous work is about to come forth
2. Give heed to his words
3. His words are “quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword”
4. The field is white already to harvest
5. Thrust in your sickle
6. Whoever is willing to work is called of God
7. Ask and you shall receive

In any case, section 12 is directed to Joseph Knight.   When Joseph Smith was 20 years old, he went to work for Joseph Knight who was impressed with his hard work.  Joseph Knight believed Joseph Smith’s testimony about the gold plates and took his wife Polly to meet Joseph while he was translating in Harmony.  Polly immediately believed and the two of them remained faithful to the restored gospel for the rest of their lives.

In verse 6 Joseph Knight is directed to “seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion.”

In verse 7, the Lord says that he is speaking to Joseph Knight and also to all those who have /desires/ to bring forth and establish the work (See 2021-02-01 for more on desires).

In verse 8, the Lord lays out the qualifications for those who can work.
> And no one can assist in this work except he shall be humble and full of love, having faith, hope, and charity, being temperate in all things, whatsoever shall be entrusted to his care.
