# 2021-02-22

The Lord rejoices when we repent
Doctrine & Covenants 18:10-16

This is a pretty famous set of verses - at least in Mormondom.  I don’t know how many times I’ve heard this quoted and every single time that I can remember, the focus has been on the one crying repentance.  The missionary who goes out to cry repentance, and receives great joy for having brought one soul - or many.

And maybe that’s OK, perhaps that is the point that the Lord wanted to make with this passage, but there are other things here.

1. The worth of a soul - verses 10-11 talk about how much a soul is worth, not in joy to the one who cried repentance, but to the Lord himself.  He suffered death in the flesh and the pain of all men, just to give us a chance.  He didn’t get any guarantees with his sacrifice, all he did was make it possible.
2. Repentance - The word “repent” or “repentance” appears 5 different times in these verses.  

I’m sad that I don’t remember the turning point in my understanding about repentance meaning consistent improvement.  I believe it started at the time I gave a talk in sacrament meeting about Elder Mark A. Bragg’s talk [Brighter and brighter unto the perfect day](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2017/04/brighter-and-brighter-until-the-perfect-day) - so maybe summer of 2017?  

I had been reading about systems vs goals and the aggregation of marginal gains in my secular reading and was coming to believe that repentance was the aggregation of marginal gains rather than paying off a debt that we had incurred by sinning.  The preparation for the talk I gave solidified all that in my mind.  

When President Nelson gave his talk [We can do better and be better](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2019/04/36nelson) in April of 2019, I felt firmly justified in my new view of repentance.  And I have endeavored to teach my kids this principle since then.  The Children and Youth program of goal setting and achieving goes right along with this as well.

Every time I read that word now (repent or repentance), I learn new things because that word means something different now than it used to.  Repentance is not crawling out of a hole that we dug ourselves into with sin.  It is consistent effort to become more like our Savior.  That is such a different message.
