# 2021-02-23

Jesus Christ suffered so that I can repent and come unto Him.
Doctrine & Covenants 19:15-20

Verse 15 has a bit of that Old Testament vibe to it, speaking of the Lord’s wrath and anger and smiting and of exquisite pain that awaits us if we do not repent as commanded.

It’s hard to square this with other scriptures where He speaks of encircling us about in the arms of His love, gathering us as a hen gathereth her chicks, and other such similes/metaphors.

And above all, for many years it made me wonder why He would design such a system.  Not until my mission, listening to W. Clean Skousen, did I hear this framed in another way.  In a way that rings true to me.

It requires a shift away from the perspective that God makes all the rules and acceptance of a new framework that God exists within a universe that has eternal laws that must be followed; eternal requirements that must be met before blessings can be obtained.

There is much doctrinal support for the idea - scriptures in the Book of Mormon explaining how certain things must be or God would cease to be God - but that is not what I want to write about today.

Only that within this mindset, can you start to think about this differently.  Verse 15 is not a threat from God, but rather the most dire of warnings.  Please do what is needed to avoid the suffering that is “how sore you know not, how exquisite you know not, yea, how hard to bear you know not.”

And then the tone shifts - please do this so you don’t have to suffer.  I already suffered for you, so you don’t have to.  All you have to do is repent.
