# 2021-01-14

What did Elijah restore?
Doctrine & Covenants 2

> It is important to know why the Lord promised to send Elijah. Elijah was a great prophet with great power given him by God. He held the greatest power God gives to His children: he held the sealing power, the power to bind on earth and have it bound in heaven.
~ President Henry B. Eyeing - [Hearts Bound Together](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2005/04/hearts-bound-together)

Moroni quoted Malachi 4 to Joseph, but with some variations from how it reads in the Old Testament.  Section 2 is Moroni’s version of a few of those verses.  The differences are interesting.

1. In Malachi, the Lord says He will send Elijah.  In D&C 2, the Lord says that he will reveal the Priesthood by the hand of Elijah.
2. In Malachi 4, the Lord says Elijah will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children (and vice versa).  In D&C 2, the Lord says that Elijah shall plan in the hearts of the children, the promises made to their fathers and that the hearts of the children would turn to their fathers.
3. D&C 2 also adds the last sentence that if this did not happen, the Earth would be “utterly wasted” at his coming.

The D&C version is quite a bit clearer about what will happen and foreshadows a specific event that happens later (at the Kirtland Temple, I believe).

When I was a kid, I read the 3rd verse that the world would be *wasted* (in my best Bill & Ted voice).  That was a cool and all, but didn’t really make much sense.  Why a lack of family history work would destroy the Earth.

It was later that I realized that word has other obvious meanings, and especially in 1823, it probably didn’t have the Bill & Ted connotation.  I now believe that it means that if the hearts of the children didn’t turn to their fathers, then the whole earthly experience would be for nothing.  If we don’t do temple work for our ancestors, utilizing the sealing power that Elijah restored to us, then we won’t have our families sealed together in eternity, and if we don’t do that, then what are we here for anyway?  Without that, we will be stopped in our eternal progress.
