# 2021-01-19

The Lord asks me to serve him with all my heart
D&C 4

I didn’t need to read this section to know what is in it.  I left on my mission 20 years ago.  We memorized this section while in the MTC and repeated it often both there and in the field.

Probably somewhere along the way, I read the heading and saw that it was given for Joseph Smith Sr., but the meaning of that didn’t penetrate my brain.  This was a section for missionaries.  “The work” and “serv[ing] God” obviously referred to going on a mission.  White fields are a reference to the elect of God who were ready to receive the Gospel.  Harvesting was obviously baptizing them.

So now my brain is reinterpreting things a little bit to fit it into a non-missionary context.  It’s less that the meaning has changed, and more that the meaning has grown or expanded.

The “service of God” does not just include missionary work.  The more expansive definition in fact probably matches what’s in the general handbook.  Section 1.2 is titled “The Work of Salvation and Exaltation”.  It says:

We come unto Christ and assist in God’s work by:

1. Living the gospel of Jesus Christ.
2. Caring for those in need.
3. Inviting all to receive the gospel.
4. Uniting families for eternity.

The “service of God” includes doing our best and continuously improving (repentance), it includes caring for others, and it also includes temple work. Four things instead of just one.

Harvesting just means making progress toward these objectives: improving ourselves, actually caring for those in need, inviting others to accept Jesus Christ (not just baptism as I had previously defined it), and doing temple and family history work.

But beyond that, the rest of the scripture is mostly as I had interpreted it before.  If you have a desire to serve, you are called.  Those who serve should do so with heart, might, mind, and strength.  Those who serve this way will stand blameless before God.  Faith, hope, charity, love, and an intent to build the kingdom (add to God’s glory) qualify you to do the work.

Maybe one other tweak is that previously I had interpreted verse 6 and verse 7 to be separate statements (they are after all verses separated by a period).  But as I read it this morning, perhaps it’s part of the same idea.  Perhaps the Godly attributes in verse 6 are the things we should be asking for and receiving that it says in Verse 7.
