# 2021-01-21

This generation shall receive God’s word through Joseph Smith
Doctrine & Covenants 5:1-10

## Prompt

What do these verses teach us about Joseph Smith’s important role in our dispensation and in my life?

I think it was Elder Murray who jokingly said once that Christianity would be a crock without the Restoration.  I don’t remember the exact conversation we were having.

The sentiment behind it was that there’s a whole bunch of stuff that just makes more sense when you add the truths of the restored Gospel.  Infant baptism, temple ordinances for those who came before, real Priesthood Authority, a church structure that matches how Jesus organized the church while he was hear.

Much of this knowledge came either directly from the Book of Mormon, or through revelation to Joseph Smith as he translated the Book of Mormon and asked for knowledge from the Lord as he did so.

I don’t know why I’ve got my mission on the brain this morning, but when I was in Ocala, I had a conversation with Elder Qualls.  He was talking about how there are a lot of similarities between Muhammed and the rise of Islam and Joseph Smith and the Restoration.  He posited that perhaps Muhammed’s work was a failed attempt at the Restoration.

It’s an interesting thought, but it doesn’t seem quite right to me.

* The timelines are a little off - Muhammed died in 632 CE/AD which was during the European age that we used to call the Dark Ages and was in some phase of what the Church still calls the Great Apostasy - generally starting somewhere between the 2nd & 4th century CE
* Muhammed was in the wrong geographic location to retrieve the plates and begin translating
* I’ve never heard of Muhammed claiming to have translated anything
* Generally speaking, the same Lord who foresaw Martin Harris losing the pages of manuscript so he tapped Nephi on the shoulder to cover the same time period, probably could also have foreseen that a Middle Eastern Restoration attempt fail

Anyway, the point of all of that is to say that I believe Joseph Smith was foreordained to be the Restorer - in the same way that Jesus was foreordained to be the Savior.  Our father created a plan with the Savior in the central role, but there are others who also have a critical role to play, and they are also part of “the plan”.

Musings on how this affects our agency will come another day =)
