# 2021-03-02

Sacred ordinances are an essential part of the restored Church.
Doctrine & Covenants 20:37, 75-79

Baptism - this lays out the requirements for baptism - in some ways it’s a bit like Mosiah 18:8-10, but with a bit more formal language and with a slightly different purpose.  Alma was asking, if these are all the things you want, why wouldn’t you be baptized?  The Lord is saying, this is what you need if you want to be baptized.

Alma

1. Desirous to come into the fold of God
2. Desirous to be called his people
3. Willing to bear one another’s burdens that they may be light
4. Willing to mourn with those that mourn
5. Willing to comfort those who stand in need of comfort
6. Willing to stand as a witness of God (in all times, things, and places)

The Lord

1. Humble yourself before God
2. Desire to be baptized
3. Come forth with a broken heart and a contrite spirit
4. Witness before the church that they have truly repented
5. Willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ
6. Have a determination to serve him to the end
7. Truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto a remission of their sins

The Sacrament

I’ve always found it interesting that the commitments that we make are different between the prayers, but never understood why that might be.

| Bread | Water |
| ----- | ----- |
| O God, the Eternal Father, | O God, the Eternal Father, |
| we ask the in the name of thy son, Jesus Christ, | we ask the in the name of thy son, Jesus Christ, |
| to bless and sanctify this bread, | to bless and sanctify this wine, |
| to the souls of all those who partake of it, | to the souls of all those who drink of it, |
| that they may eat do it in remembrance | that they may do it in remembrance |
| of the body of thy son, | of the blood of thy son, |
| | Which was shed for them; |
| and witness unto thee, | that they may witness unto thee, |
| O God, the Eternal Father, | O God, the Eternal Father, |
| that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, | |
| and always remember him | that they do always remember him |
| and keep his commandments which he has given them; | |
| that they may always have his Spirit | that they may have his Spirit |
| to be with them. Amen. | to be with them. Amen. |

There are some appropriate changes because we’re talking about bread or water.  That seems expected.  There’s the extra notation for water that Christ’s blood was shed for us.  And there are syntactical differences in the way that the “that they may”s and the “ands” are spread throughout.  I don’t know that there are doctrinal truths hidden in any of those.

I think the most interesting differences are the extra commitments with the bread that we do not make with the water.

1. We witness that we are willing to take upon us the name of the Son (Jesus Christ)
2. We witness that we are willing to keep the commandments

I feel like there’s something here.  That it’s not an accidental omission, but I don’t know what the significance is yet.
