---
layout: post
title: "2021-04-21"
description: "Thoughts on Sister Joy Jones's April 2021, Saturday Morning conference message."
date: 2021-04-21
tags: [commitment, building the kingdom]
---

# 2021-04-21

April Conference 2021
Saturday Morning
Sister Joy D. Jones
[Essential Conversations](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2021/04/13jones?lang=eng)

> One young mother and father sat at their kitchen table reviewing their day. From down the hall, they heard a thud. The mother asked, “What was that?”

> Then they heard a soft cry coming from their four-year-old son’s bedroom. They rushed down the hall. There he was, lying on the floor next to his bed. The mother picked up the little boy and asked him what had happened.

> He said, “I fell out of bed.”

> She said, “Why did you fall out of bed?”

> He shrugged and said, “I don’t know. I guess I just didn’t get far enough in.”

I heard this message shortly after returning from a camping trip.  On the drive home, my wife and I had spent much time discussing someone we care for who is really struggling with some aspects of Church policy and leadership.  Every issue that comes up is something that Elder Lawrence Corbridge [would have called a secondary issue](/2021-03-28/).

This is different language than what Elder Corbridge used, but I think the sentiment is a similar one.  I wonder if we sometimes struggle with gospel topics because we aren't far enough in.

In my line of work (developing software), we sometimes mention the chicken and the pig in terms of their level of commitment to breakfast of bacon and eggs as a metaphor for how committed someone is to the success of a project.  This sounds a little ridiculous out of context, but stick with me here.

The chicken is involved in the breakfast.  It contributes the eggs, which we cook and eat, and they are delicious.  But, the chicken is not committed to breakfast.  The chicken doesn't have any personal stake in the results.  The chicken contributes to the project and is informed of the results.

The pig, on the other hand, is committed.  The pig has a very personal stake, and is all in.  The pig is totally committed to the project and responsible for the outcome.

It's not a perfect metaphor (for software development or spiritual development), but this is what came to mind when I heard it.

If the project is _the building of the Kingdom of God_, I think I've lived most of my live as the chicken.  I'm involved, and I'd like to hear about the outcome, but I haven't felt committed or responsible for the outcome.  Maybe when I served on my mission for two years, but not before or after.

But not everybody is like me.  I think I do know a few pigs.
