# 2021-03-01

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is founded on true doctrine
Doctrine & Covenants 20:1-36

I’ve been using Section 20 to read the sacrament prayers as I administer the sacrament to my family each Sunday for almost a year now.  This is the revelation on church organization and government for the modern church.

But this section has a couple preambles that kinda feel like their own self-contained revelations (they even end in “Amen”).

The first is in verses 1-16, in which the Lord describes the events that have led up to this moment and says that this is a pivot point in history.

* V2: Emphasizes that Joseph is called of God
* V2-9: Recounts (very) briefly, the First Vision and translation of the Book of Mormon
* V10-12: Uses those events as evidence of modern-day revelation and of His ongoing communication with men
* V13-15: Says that the world has received great witnesses, and they shall be judged by them.  Those who receive it (and act on it) shall receive eternal life.  Those who reject it, it will turn to their condemnation.

The second runs from verses 17-36 and lays out the most fundamental doctrines of the Church around the creation, the fall, and the atonement.

* V17-19: There is a God in heaven who is infinite and eternal, He created men and women in His own image, and He gave them commandments to love and serve Him.
* V18: The fall, our (man’s) nature’s changed
* V19-24: Jesus came to Earth, was crucified, resurrected, and glorified
* V25-27: The atonement is infinite and eternal.  This is maybe supposed to parallel God’s description of Himself as infinite and eternal.  He is that way, so is the work He did.
* V29-36: That atonement is sufficient for men to be justified and sanctified.  Be careful even if you think you’re good.

The study guide asks the question why it would be important to emphasize these things as the Church was being established.  

The first thing that comes to mind is that this is all a relatively concise description of the history of the Church up to that moment in time and it lays out the fundamental doctrines of the Church. If you’re going to join a church, it seems to make sense to understand how it came about and what it believes - and in some sense, how it is different from the other options.

The second thought I had was that at the time, a lot of the people in the room may not have even known the full story.  It’s not just an official record, some of the people were probably hearing some of this for the first time.
