# 2021-02-02

Satan seeks to destroy the work of God
Doctrine & Covenants 10:1-33

## Realistic Expectations

* V4: “Do not run faster or labor more than you have strength and means provided...”
  * This is the same idea as Mosiah 4:27 that tells us to do things in wisdom and order and that it’s not requisite that a man should run faster than he has strength
* It’s nice to know that the Lord understands that we have limits.  He expects us to do our best, but does not expect more than what we are capable of (with him helping us out).

## Conqueror

* V5: “Pray always that you may come off conqueror
* The Lord wants us to “win”, he is on our side and wants us to achieve our righteous goals and keep ourselves free of Satan’s grasp.  We should pray for his aid in our quest.

## Willful/open rebellion

* V15-19: These verse describe a plot to discredit the prophet, but in doing so, they also acknowledge the power of his gift.  The way I read these verses, they understand that Joseph is a prophet, that he does actually have a gift from God and they are actively seeking to destroy him and his work anyway.  Why? They are seeking to “get glory of the world.”
* V19-20: Satan has great hold upon them, and “their hearts are corrupt, and full of wickedness and abominations; and they love darkness rather than light...”
V23: The Lord will “require this at their hands, and it shall turn to their shame and condemnation in the day of judgment.”

## How Satan Works

Verses 25-28 seem to be an expansion of the original thought, describing more generally how Satan works, using these wicked men as an example of a broader pattern.

* V25: he tells men to “[D]eceive and lie in wait to catch, that ye may destroy...he flattereth them, and telleth them that it is no sin to lie...”
* V26: “...he flattereth them, and leaders them along until he dragged their souls down to hell; and thus he cause the them to catch themselves in their own snare.”
* V28: Those who do this - who allow Satan to tempt them - “are not exempt from the justice of God.”  Our agency is a two-edged sword.  Yes, we can choose for ourselves, but we also bear the full responsibility of our choices.
