# 2021-02-18

The word of God is “quick and powerful.”
Doctrine & Covenants 14:2

> Behold, I am God; give heed to my word, which is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, to the dividing asunder of both joints and marrow; therefore give heed unto my word.

A two-edged sword cuts in both directions.  It is obviously dangerous to the foe you face, but it can also be dangerous to the person who wields it.

From this, we learn that the word of God can cut to the heart, it doesn’t take much time, and there are probably not many things that it can’t cut through.

The word of God is described in many other ways.

* Psalms 119:105 - Thy ​​​word​ ​is​ a ​​​lamp​ unto my feet, and a ​​​light​ unto my path.
* Isaiah 55:10-11 - For as the ​​​rain​ cometh down, and the snow from heaven, and returneth not thither, but watereth the earth, and maketh it bring forth and bud, that it may give seed to the sower, and ​​​bread​ to the eater: ​So shall my ​​​word​ be that goeth forth out of my mouth: it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper ​in the thing​ whereto I sent it.
* Matthew 4:4 - ...Man​ shall not ​​​live​ by ​​​bread​ alone, but by every ​​​word​ that proceedeth out of the ​​​mouth​ of God.
* 1 Nephi 15:23-34 - And they said unto me: What meaneth the ​​​rod of iron​ which our father saw, that led to the tree? And I said unto them that it was the ​​​word​ of God; and whoso would hearken unto the word of God, and would ​​​hold​ fast unto it, they would never perish; neither could the ​​​temptations​ and the fiery ​​​darts​ of the ​​​adversary​ overpower them unto blindness, to lead them away to destruction.
* Alma 32:28 - Now, we will compare the word unto a ​​​seed​. Now, if ye give place, that a ​​​seed​ may be planted in your ​​​heart​, behold, if it be a true seed, or a good seed, if ye do not cast it out by your ​​​unbelief​, that ye will resist the Spirit of the Lord, behold, it will begin to swell within your breasts; and when you feel these swelling motions, ye will begin to say within yourselves—It must needs be that this is a good seed, or that the word is good, for it beginneth to enlarge my soul; yea, it beginneth to ​​​enlighten​ my ​​​understanding​, yea, it beginneth to be delicious to me.

The word of God can allow us to see the way we should go.  The word of God is not idle, He does not say things lightly.  When He speaks, His words will be fulfilled.  The word of God will sustain us.  If we “hold fast” to the word of God, we will not perish or be overcome by temptation.  If we plant the word of God in our hearts and nurture it, it will grow within us and “enlarge” and “enlighten” us.
