# 2021-02-09

The Aaronic Priesthood was restored by John the Baptist
Doctrine & Covenants 13

The Keys of the Ministering of Angels

## 2 Nephi 32:2-3

* After we receive the Holy Ghost, we can speak with the tongue of angels
* Angels speak by the power of the Holy Ghost
* Angels speak the words of Christ

I’ve read this scripture so many times and always focused on the feasting part.  Does the ministering of angels include us doing the same work that angels are called to do?

## Moroni 7:29-32, 36-37

* Angels have not ceased to minister unto man
* Angels are subject to Jesus Christ and minister according to His word of command
* Angels show themselves “unto them of strong faith and a firm mind in every form of godliness”
* An angel’s office of ministry is to
  * Call men unto repentance
  * Fulfill and do the work of the covenants of the Father
  * Prepare the way of men by declaring the words of Christ unto the chosen vessels of the Lord (that the chosen vessels of the Lord may bear testimony of Him)
* This prepares the way for man to have faith in Christ that the Holy Ghost have place in their hearts
* Angels will continue to minister to man “as long as time shall last, or the earth shall stand, or there shall be one man upon the face thereof to be saved” as long as we have faith.

Faith and the ministry of angels have a symbiotic relationship.  Where one is, the other will also be found.  They enable one another.

## “The Ministry of Angels”

[Link](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2008/10/the-ministry-of-angels), Jeffrey R Holland, October Conference 2008
> Usually such beings are not seen. Sometimes they are. But seen or unseen they are always near. Sometimes their assignments are very grand and have significance for the whole world. Sometimes the messages are more private. Occasionally the angelic purpose is to warn. But most often it is to comfort, to provide some form of merciful attention, guidance in difficult times.
> I have spoken here of heavenly help, of angels dispatched to bless us in time of need. But when we speak of those who are instruments in the hand of God, we are reminded that not all angels are from the other side of the veil. Some of them we walk with and talk with—here, now, every day.

## “Angels”

[Link](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/gs/angels), Guide to the Scriptures
> There are two kinds of beings in heaven who are called angels: those who are spirits and those who have bodies of flesh and bone. Angels who are spirits have not yet obtained a body of flesh and bone, or they are spirits who have once had a mortal body and are awaiting resurrection. Angels who have bodies of flesh and bone have either been resurrected from the dead or translated.
> Righteous mortal men may also be called angels.
> The scriptures also speak of the devil’s angels. These are those spirits who followed Lucifer and were thrust out of God’s presence in the premortal life and cast down to the earth.

Also a pretty good run-down of the physical appearances of angels in the standard works.
