# 2021-01-08

The First Vision began the Restoration of Jesus Christ’s Gospel.

## Prompt

How has the First Vision changed your life?  How have you been blessed by the First Vision?

Last night, Addi went through the temple to receive her endowment.  She “enters the MTC” at home in 3 weeks and will be leaving for Hawaii about 3 weeks after that.

In our current state of CoViD-19 response, only live ordinances are performed, only by appointment, and only in small groups.  But Alison and I were lucky enough to be part of the group.  I went to the temple at the very beginning of 2020 for Jen’s temple sealing, but I honestly cannot remember the last time that I went through a session to actually participate in temple work (after talking to Alison, it may have been at Gila Valley when we went to Arizona for Grandpa Sander’s funeral, but that’s just a guess).

In short, it had been a very long time since I had been able to attend the temple to do temple work.  And the ordinance has been adjusted to account for safety - sometimes looking at a picture of physical interactions instead of doing them ourselves, sometimes being asked to use hand sanitizer before and after interactions that are absolutely necessary.

I think because I had been away so long, and because I was fully aware of my having taken the experience for granted (to my shame, we didn’t even take Bryson at the beginning of the year when we has able because we thought we were going on his temple trip soon), I was very focused.  I paid attention to every little detail, noticing things I had not noticed before, wondering about things that I have previously never wondered about.  I was grateful for the experience to remember my covenants - to remember the signs and symbols that I carry with me, to remember their meaning, to remember the covenants I have made and to be prompted of areas where I can improve.

Without the First Vision, none of that would be possible.  There would be no Church, there would be no priesthood, there would be no Restoration of temple ordinances and covenants, there would be no temple, there would be no family relationships that outlast death.  That would be a different life, indeed.
