# 2021-01-28

Heavenly Father speaks to me through the “Spirit of Truth”
Doctrine & Covenants 6, 8-9

## What the Lord requires before he will reveal his will

* D&C 6:5 - “if you will ask of me, you shall receive; if you will knock it shall be opened unto you.”
* D&C 6:6 - “keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion;”
* D&C 6:7 - “seek not for riches, but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you...”
* D&C 8:1 - “you shall receive a knowledge of whatsoever things you shall ask in faith, with an honest heart, believing that you shall receive a knowledge...”
* D&C 9:8 - “you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right...”

## Different ways revelation can come

* D&C 6:14 - “as often as thou hast inquired, thou hast received instruction of my spirit...”
* D&C 6:15 - “I did enlighten thy mind...thou has been enlightened by the spirit of truth;”
* D&C 6:23 - “Did I not speak peace to your mind concerning the matter?”
* D&C 6:24 - “...if I have told you things which no man knoweth have you not received a witness?”
* D&C 8:2-3 - “Yea, behold I will tell you in your mind and in your heart...this is the spirit of revelation;”
* D&C 9:8-9 - “if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore you will feel that it is right.  But if it be not right you shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a stupor of thought that shall cause you to forget the thing which is wrong;”

One of the foundation experiences of my testimony is the answer to my prayer of where I should go to college.  In that instance, I felt very clearly the stupor of thought that is described in D&C 9:9.  Ever since then, that has been my focus as I read these few verses in section 9.  Verse 8 also says that your bosom shall burn within you if the thing is right.

This morning, I wonder if we over-index on those two phrases.  For the first time, I’m noticing that there are other descriptions in those verses.

If the thing is right, there are actually two descriptions here:

1. The obvious one that we all focus on - I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you
2. The subtler one that I don’t ever here mentioned in this context - ::you shall feel that it is right::

If the thing is not right, there are also two descriptions here:

1. The obvious one - you shall have stupor of thought which shall cause you to forget
2. The subtler one - ::you shall have no such feelings:: - in other words, you will not have a burning in your bosom and you will not feel that it is right

When I have questions, after I have studied it out in my mind, I wonder if I focused on the feeling of what is right or the absence of that feeling - rather than on a burning bosom or a stupor of thought - that I might better recognize what answers the Lord has for me.

One final thought: I’ve always thought of the word “forget” in the traditional sense that I can no longer remember something even though I’m actively trying.  I wonder if the Lord uses it here in the more passive sense of something that will trouble your mind no more.  

I’ve lately had some sleepless nights because I’ve been excited about figuring out how to live off-grid, going down various rabbit holes of research and turning things over in my mind.  My brain processes these things over and over from different angles, and as I try to sleep, I just keep having things run through my head such that I can’t sleep.  But as my mind settles on a thing, figures out the answer to the thing that it was processing, it quiets down and I can sleep.

I wonder if this is what it means to “forget”.  That your mind will be at peace.  That the thing that was keeping you awake at night, that you were troubling over - that will end and it won’t trouble you anymore.
