---
layout: post
title: "2021-04-11"
description: "Thoughts on President Nelson's April 2021, Saturday Morning conference welcome message."
date: 2021-04-11
tags: [repentance]
---

# 2021-04-11

April Conference 2021
Saturday Morning
President Nelson
[Welcome Message](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2021/04/11nelson?lang=eng)

During his welcome message, President Nelson talked about the renovations being done on the Salt Lake Temple grounds.

> As I have watched workers dig out old tree roots, plumbing, wiring, and a leaky fountain, I have thought about the need for each of us to remove, with the Savior’s help, the old debris in our lives.
> The gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of repentance. Because of the Savior’s Atonement, His gospel provides an invitation to keep changing, growing, and becoming more pure...

I love each small reminder that he gives about how our lives should be considered as a work in progress, that we should always be making improvements to become a little better, and that this is the true meaning of repentance.  My kids have started to catch onto this as well, and sometimes Garrett pray for help to "do better tomorrow than we did today".  These are not the words I use when we talk about it - or when I pray about it - but I think it's even better that it is part of his life in a way that makes sense to him.

> As we listen to the messages that have been carefully prepared by our leaders under the direction of the Holy Ghost, I invite you to pray to identify the debris you should remove from your life so you can become more worthy.

This is a reiteration of the same point above, but with the additional thought that the purpose of removing debris from our lives is so that we can become more worthy.  This is worth remembering.  And doing.
